[Pages](docs): Update Remix deployment guide to reflect Remix Vite setup (#13829)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-remix-site.md

`create-cloudflare` will install additional dependencies, including the [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/#check-your-wrangler-version) CLI and any necessary adapters, and ask you setup questions.

{{<Aside type="warning" header="Before you deploy">}}
Your Remix project will include a `functions/[[path]].ts` file. The `[[path]]` filename indicates that this file will handle requests to all incoming URLs. Refer to [Path segments](/pages/functions/routing/#dynamic-routes) to learn more.

> The `functions/[[path]].ts` will not function as expected if you attempt to deploy your site before running `remix vite:build`.

Author: I seriously considered replacing `remix vite:build` here with `npm run build`. However I felt it was better to showcase the actual build command being run.

A [binding](/pages/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV namespaces](/kv/reference/how-kv-works/), [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/), [R2 storage buckets](/r2/), and [D1 databases](/d1/).

### Binding resources in local development

Remix uses uses wrangler's [`getPlatformProxy`](/workers/wrangler/api/#getplatformproxy) to simulate the Cloudflare environment locally. This is configured via the [`cloudflareDevProxyVitePlugin`](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/future/vite#cloudflare-proxy) in `vite.config.ts`.

To bind resources in local development, you need to configure the bindings in the `wrangler.toml` file. Refer to [wrangler bindings](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#bindings) to learn more.

Once you have configured the bindings in the `wrangler.toml` file, the proxies are then available within `context.cloudflare` in your `loader` or `action` functions:

```typescript
export const loader = ({ context }: LoaderFunctionArgs) => {
  const { env, cf, ctx } = context.cloudflare;
  env.MY_BINDING // Access bound resources here
  // ... more loader code here...
};
```

> {{<Aside type="warning" header="Correcting the env type">}}

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this needs to be a warning 🤔

```suggestion
{{<Aside header="Correcting the env type">}}
```

You may have noticed that `context.cloudflare.env` is not typed correctly when you add additional bindings in `wrangler.toml`.

To fix this, run `npm run typegen` to generate the missing types. This will update the `Env` interface defined in `worker-configuration.d.ts`.
After running the command, you can access the bindings in your `loader` or `action` using `context.cloudflare.env` as shown above.
{{</Aside>}}

### Binding resources in production

To bind resources in production you need to configure the bindings in the Cloudflare dashboard. Refer to the [Bindings](/pages/functions/bindings/) documentation to learn more.

> Once you have configured the bindings in the Cloudflare dashboard, the proxies are then available within `context.cloudflare.env` in your `loader` or `action` functions as shown [above](/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-remix-site/#binding-resources-in-local-development).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have configured the bindings in the Cloudflare dashboard, the proxies are then available within `context.cloudflare.env` in your `loader` or `action` functions as shown [above](#binding-resources-in-local-development).
```

## Example: Accessing your D1 database in a Remix application

> Let's put the steps above into practice by binding and querying a D1 database in a Remix application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an example, you will bind and query a D1 database in a Remix application.
```

A [binding](/pages/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV namespaces](/kv/reference/how-kv-works/), [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/), [R2 storage buckets](/r2/), and [D1 databases](/d1/).

### Binding resources in local development

Remix uses uses wrangler's [`getPlatformProxy`](/workers/wrangler/api/#getplatformproxy) to simulate the Cloudflare environment locally. This is configured via the [`cloudflareDevProxyVitePlugin`](https://remix.run/docs/en/main/future/vite#cloudflare-proxy) in `vite.config.ts`.

To bind resources in local development, you need to configure the bindings in the `wrangler.toml` file. Refer to [wrangler bindings](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#bindings) to learn more.

Once you have configured the bindings in the `wrangler.toml` file, the proxies are then available within `context.cloudflare` in your `loader` or `action` functions:

```typescript
export const loader = ({ context }: LoaderFunctionArgs) => {
  const { env, cf, ctx } = context.cloudflare;
  env.MY_BINDING // Access bound resources here
  // ... more loader code here...
};
```

> #### Correcting env types

Reviewer: If the user has created the application using C3 the following is a bit off since they can just run:
```sh
$ npm run build-cf-types
```

Could you clarify this?

Author: ahh, I get why I got confused here. So there is some subtlety involved.

If anyone scaffolds this project using the default remix template (aka `npx create-remix@latest --template remix-run/remix/templates/cloudflare`) then they won't get a `worker-configuration.d.ts` file with their project. For them, their `load-context.ts` file will look like this

```ts
import { type PlatformProxy } from "wrangler";

// Empty interface, needs to be manually populated with the output of wrangler types
interface Env {}

type Cloudflare = Omit<PlatformProxy<Env>, "dispose">;

declare module "@remix-run/cloudflare" {
  interface AppLoadContext {
    cloudflare: Cloudflare;
  }
}
```

However, as you rightly pointed out, when you scaffold with `c3`, this file is setup to expect the `Env` interface that is defined in `worker-configuration.d.ts` which is auto-updated when you run `wrangler types`. As a point of note, there are two npm commands that do this, `npm run typegen` (provided by the remix template) and `npm run  build-cf-types` (provided by `c3`)

@dario-piotrowicz I'm leaning towards your recommendation, and simply telling users to run `npm run typegen` (or build-cf-types), rather than explaining the whole copy paste thing.
I also think I should probably make a PR back into Remix to update their template to also use `worker-configuration.d.ts`, since it seems like the more sensible option

Reviewer: > I also think I should probably make a PR back into Remix to update their template to also use worker-configuration.d.ts, since it seems like the more sensible option

Yes, that's something that I've wanted to do for a bit but haven't really find the time to do so 😅

if you want please go right ahead, or I can take it on (and prioritize this 😅), whatever works best for you 🙂👍 

One thing to keep in mind, is that `wrangler types` accepts an `--env-interface` argument to update the interface name and can also write to a different output file, I would use these to make the interface and file less generic and more cloudflare-specific 🙂

Author: > if you want please go right ahead, or I can take it on (and prioritize this 😅), whatever works best for you 🙂👍

Hey if you think you can finish it before the coming weekend go right ahead 😄 
I'll likely be busy with other work until Saturday

> One thing to keep in mind, is that wrangler types accepts an --env-interface argument to update the interface name and can also write to a different output file, I would use these to make the interface and file less generic and more cloudflare-specific 🙂

I'm not sure I follow. Is the idea to modify `load-context.ts` + the npm commands in a way that we write the generated types directly to that file rather than a seperate `.d.ts` file?

You may notice that `context.cloudflare.env` may not be typed correctly when you add additional bindings in `wrangler.toml`. This is because the env types need to manually altered.

Let's say you have a KV namespace binding in `wrangler.toml`:

```toml
[[kv_namespaces]]
binding = "PRODUCTS_KV"
id = "<NAMESPACE_ID>"
```

First we need to run `wrangler types` to generate the types for the bindings:

```sh
$ wrangler types
 ⛅️ wrangler 3.45.0
-------------------
interface Env {
  PRODUCTS_KV: KVNamespace;
}
```

Now just copy the `Env` interface given by `wrangler types` into the `load-context.ts` file at the root of your Remix project

```typescript
---
filename: load-context.ts
---
import { type PlatformProxy } from 'wrangler';

// Add the interface generated by wrangler types
interface Env {
  PRODUCTS_KV: KVNamespace;
}

type Cloudflare = Omit<PlatformProxy<Env>, 'dispose'>;

declare module '@remix-run/cloudflare' {
  interface AppLoadContext {
    cloudflare: Cloudflare;
  }
}
```

### Binding resources in production

> To bind resources in production you need to configure the bindings in the Cloudflare dashboard. Refer to the [Bindings](/pages/functions/bindings/) documentation to learn more.

Reviewer: this section seems overly simplified for me.... it doesn't include any information on how to use the bindings (via `context.cloudflare`)...

I can understand that you didn't want to repeat the same information provided in the local setup section...
But could you at least mention that the way to access/use the bindings is the same as mentioned above?

(for now, then when we restructure this guide we can improve this further)

Reviewer: Thanks for addressing this 🙂

## Example: Accessing your D1 database in a Remix application

Let's put the steps above into practice by accessing a D1 database in a Remix application.

1. Create a D1 database. Refer to the [D1 documentation](/d1/) to learn more.
2. Configure the bindings in the `wrangler.toml` file:

```toml
[[ d1_databases ]]
binding = "DB"
database_name = "<your-db-name>"
database_id = "<your-db-id>"
```

> 3. Run `wrangler types` to generate the types for the bindings:

Reviewer: as per my comment above, assuming people scaffolded the app using C3 they could just run `npm run build-cf-types`
